Document top-level method limitations imposed by the configuration cache (#22880)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/running-builds/configuration_cache.adoc

include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/samConversion/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=configure]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/samConversion/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=configure]"]
====

[[config_cache:not_yet_implemented:accessing_top_level_at_execution]]

> === Accessing top-level methods and variables at execution time

Reviewer: 📝 I think we should include the word _script_ somewhere here since the context is not clear like in the other page. 

_Accessing top-level script methods and variable at execution time_, perhaps?

> Currently, Gradle cannot run a task restored from the configuration cache if a task action calls a method defined directly in the build script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Gradle cannot run a task restored from the configuration cache if a task action calls a method defined directly in the build script.
```
Suggestion: remove "currently" for same reason as "yet" above. "Currently" is implicit in the "current" version of the docs, after all.

Consider rephrasing this to a less technical voice since it is the introductory sentence of the section. Perhaps:

"Methods and variables defined at the top level of your build script are not compatible with the configuration cache. Any tasks that use top-level methods or variables cannot store outputs in the cache."

... or something similar, if I've missed any technical details.

> In case of the Groovy DSL, the action fails when running from the cache with an error message about method not being found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For builds scripts written in Groovy, the task fails because the method cannot be found.
```

Suggestion: rephrase introductory sentence to better scope the situation. Rephrase "the action fails when running from the cache" to "the task fails" since we haven't clearly defined what "action" means and if the action fails, the task fails as well (I think?). If the task fails, it stands to reason that there's an error message, so we can leave that out and just state the cause instead.

> In the following snippet, the task `listFiles` uses such method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet uses a top-level method in the `listFiles` task:
```
Sentence isn't quite grammatically correct -- suggesting rephrase that starts with "The following snippet" to set reader expectations, and that explicitly mentions "top-level" so readers who skip down to an example don't have to backtrack through the whole last paragraph to figure out what's going on.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/topLevel/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=not-supported]"]
====

> Running the task the second time when the configuration cache is reused gives an error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first time you run this task, it succeeds. Re-running the task with the configuration cache enabled produces the following error:
```
Suggestion: add a sentence explaining that the task succeeds on first run. Reinforces the narrative we're trying to convey here. Slight wording improvements in the second sentence.

----
include::{snippetsPath}/configurationCache/topLevel/tests-groovy/notSupported.out[]
----

> The workaround is to convert the method to the static method of a proper class:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To prevent the task from failing when loaded from the configuration cache, convert the referenced top-level method to a static method within a class:
```
Suggestion: Switch wording from "the workaround" to "to prevent the task from failing when loaded from the configuration cache" to make the resolution more explicit. Minor wording changes for clarity and readability in the second clause.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/topLevel/groovy",files="build.gradle[tags=workaround]"]
====

> In case of the Kotlin DSL, the task cannot be stored to the configuration cache at all, because the captured script object reference cannot be serialized.
> For the same reason, it is not possible to reference a top-level variable from the task action too.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build scripts written in Kotlin cannot store tasks that reference top-level methods or variables in the configuration cache at all.
This limitation exists because the captured script object references cannot be serialized.
As a result, the Kotlin version of this task won't fail when re-run using the configuration cache.
But it won't be stored in the configuration cache, which slows down the build.
```
Suggestion: significant rewrite, eliminating the last sentence entirely. Rephrase the introduction for (near) parallelism to the Groovy reference above. Split the effect/cause apart to make the limitation clearer, and allow readers to "tune out" from the explanation if they don't understand the (quite technical) reasoning behind it.
Make the conclusion clearer -- at first, I thought you meant that *no* runs with this task would succeed with the configuration cache enabled. I *think* the suggested sentences are correct, but you should double check.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/topLevel/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=not-supported]"]
====

> The workaround follows the same pattern as the Groovy one:
> ====
> include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/topLevel/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=workaround]"]
> ====
> <1> Define the method inside an object
> <2> Define the variable in a smaller scope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make the Kotlin version of this task compatible with the configuration cache, make the following changes:
====
include::sample[dir="snippets/configurationCache/topLevel/kotlin",files="build.gradle.kts[tags=workaround]"]
====
<1> Define the method inside an object.
<2> Define the variable in a smaller scope.
```
Suggestion: rephrase to set the problem space in the introductory sentence, just like the Groovy workaround rephrase. Make the suggested change annotations into full sentences (they just need a period at the end).

> See link:{gradle-issues}22879[gradle/gradle#22879].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about this limitation (and the steps you can take to work around it), see link:{gradle-issues}22879[gradle/gradle#22879].
```
Suggestion: introduce the link.

Author: These links are for the users mostly to track when the limitation is lifted, it is a bit misleading to promise more information and workarounds here; the intention is to have all workarounds in the doc. I'm pretty sure the introduction of this link (and similar in other sections) can be reworded to add more clarity, but maybe we should address this separately for all links at once.
